README.md, before:

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/dankogai/js-base64.png)](http://travis-ci.org/dankogai/js-base64)

# base64.js

Yet another Base64 transcoder

## HEADS UP: ES2015 support required since version 3

Version 3 is completely rewritten with ES2015 features like arrow functions, `TextDecoder` and `TextEncoder`.  All modern browsers and node 12 or up are supported.  Your codes should run unchanged.

The hardest part of maintaing this module was not Base64 features, but cross-platform support (eg. nodejs vs web browsers).  By making ES2015 mandatory virtually all codes are common (except `atob()` and `btoa()`).

If you need to support legacy browsers like IE, use version 2.

Ironically ES6 `export` is not used to keep the API compatible.

## Usage

### Install

```javascript
$ npm install --save js-base64
```

If you are using it on ES6 transpilers, you may also need:

```javascript
$ npm install --save babel-preset-env
```

### In Browser

Locally…

```html
<script src="base64.js"></script>
```

… or Directly from CDN.  In which case you don't even need to install.

```html
<!-- the latest -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/js-base64/base64.min.js">
```

```html
<!-- with version fixed -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/js-base64@3.0.0/base64.min.js">
```

### node.js

```javascript
const Base64 = require('js-base64').Base64;
```

## As a ES6 Module (via babel, et al.)

```javascript
import { Base64 } from 'js-base64';
```

## SYNOPSIS

```javascript
Base64.encode('dankogai'); // ZGFua29nYWk=
Base64.btoa(  'dankogai'); // ZGFua29nYWk=
Base64.fromUint8Array(     // ZGFua29nYWk=
    new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105])
);
Base64.fromUint8Array(     // ZGFua29nYW which is URI safe
    new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105]), true
);
Base64.encode(   '小飼弾'); // 5bCP6aO85by+
Base64.encodeURI('小飼弾'); // 5bCP6aO85by- which equals to Base64.encode('小飼弾', true)
Base64.btoa(     '小飼弾'); // raises exception 
```

```javascript
Base64.decode('ZGFua29nYWk=');  // dankogai
Base64.atob(  'ZGFua29nYWk=');  // dankogai
Base64.toUint8Array(            // new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105])
    'ZGFua29nYWk='
);
Base64.decode('5bCP6aO85by+');  // 小飼弾
// note .decodeURI() is unnecessary since it accepts both flavors
Base64.decode('5bCP6aO85by-');  // 小飼弾
Base64.atob(  '5bCP6aO85by+');  // 'å°é£¼å¼¾' which is nonsense
```

### String Extension for ES5

```javascript
// you have to explicitly extend String.prototype
Base64.extendString();
// once extended, you can do the following
'dankogai'.toBase64();        // ZGFua29nYWk=
'小飼弾'.toBase64();           // 5bCP6aO85by+
'小飼弾'.toBase64(true);       // 5bCP6aO85by-
'小飼弾'.toBase64URI();        // 5bCP6aO85by-
'小飼弾'.toBase64URL();        // 5bCP6aO85by- an alias of .toBase64URI()
'ZGFua29nYWk='.fromBase64();  // dankogai
'5bCP6aO85by+'.fromBase64();  // 小飼弾
'5bCP6aO85by-'.fromBase64();  // 小飼弾
'5bCP6aO85by-'.toUint8Array();// new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105])
```

```javascript
// you have to explicitly extend String.prototype
Base64.extendString();
// once extended, you can do the following
const u8s =  new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105]);
u8s.toBase64();     // 'ZGFua29nYWk='
u8s.toBase64URI();  // 'ZGFua29nYWk'
u8s.toBase64URL();  // 'ZGFua29nYWk' an alias of .toBase64URI()
```

You can extend both via `Base64.extendBuiltin()`.

### TypeScript

TypeScript 2.0 type definition was added to the [DefinitelyTyped repository](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped).

```bash
$ npm install --save @types/js-base64
```

## `.decode()` vs `.atob` (and `.encode()` vs `btoa()`)

Suppose you have:

```
var pngBase64 = 
  "iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mNkYAAAAAYAAjCB0C8AAAAASUVORK5CYII=";
```

Which is a Base64-encoded 1x1 transparent PNG, **DO NOT USE** `Base64.decode(pngBase64)`.  Use `Base64.atob(pngBase64)` instead.  `Base64.decode()` decodes to UTF-8 string while `Base64.atob()` decodes to bytes, which is compatible to browser built-in `atob()` (Which is absent in node.js).  The same rule applies to the opposite direction.

Or even better, `Base64.toUint8Array(pngBase64)`.

## SEE ALSO

+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64

Commit message:

add Old MS Edge Workaround

README.md, after:

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/dankogai/js-base64.png)](http://travis-ci.org/dankogai/js-base64)

# base64.js

Yet another Base64 transcoder

## HEADS UP: ES2015 support required since version 3

Version 3 is completely rewritten with ES2015 features like arrow functions, `TextDecoder` and `TextEncoder`.  All modern browsers and node 12 or up are supported.  Your codes should run unchanged.

The hardest part of maintaing this module was not Base64 features, but cross-platform support (eg. nodejs vs web browsers).  By making ES2015 mandatory virtually all codes are common (except `atob()` and `btoa()`).

If you need to support legacy browsers like IE, use version 2.

[text-encoding-shim]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/text-encoding-shim

Ironically ES6 `export` is not used to keep the API compatible.

### Old MS Edge workaround

MS Edge before 79 MS Edge before 79 (before Chromium) lacks `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder`. You can polyfill them by loading [text-encoding-shim] ahead of `base64.js`.

## Usage

### Install

```javascript
$ npm install --save js-base64
```

If you are using it on ES6 transpilers, you may also need:

```javascript
$ npm install --save babel-preset-env
```

### In Browser

Locally…

```html
<script src="base64.js"></script>
```

… or Directly from CDN.  In which case you don't even need to install.

```html
<!-- 
    MS Edge before 79 (before Chromium) lacks TextEncoder and TextDecoder.
    You can polyfill them by loading text-encoding-shim before base64
-->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/text-encoding-shim@1.0.5/index.min.js">
<!-- the latest -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/js-base64@3.0.1/base64.min.js">
```

### node.js

```javascript
const Base64 = require('js-base64').Base64;
```

## As a ES6 Module (via babel, et al.)

```javascript
import { Base64 } from 'js-base64';
```

## SYNOPSIS

```javascript
Base64.encode('dankogai'); // ZGFua29nYWk=
Base64.btoa(  'dankogai'); // ZGFua29nYWk=
Base64.fromUint8Array(     // ZGFua29nYWk=
    new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105])
);
Base64.fromUint8Array(     // ZGFua29nYW which is URI safe
    new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105]), true
);
Base64.encode(   '小飼弾'); // 5bCP6aO85by+
Base64.encodeURI('小飼弾'); // 5bCP6aO85by- which equals to Base64.encode('小飼弾', true)
Base64.btoa(     '小飼弾'); // raises exception 
```

```javascript
Base64.decode('ZGFua29nYWk=');  // dankogai
Base64.atob(  'ZGFua29nYWk=');  // dankogai
Base64.toUint8Array(            // new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105])
    'ZGFua29nYWk='
);
Base64.decode('5bCP6aO85by+');  // 小飼弾
// note .decodeURI() is unnecessary since it accepts both flavors
Base64.decode('5bCP6aO85by-');  // 小飼弾
Base64.atob(  '5bCP6aO85by+');  // 'å°é£¼å¼¾' which is nonsense
```

### String Extension for ES5

```javascript
// you have to explicitly extend String.prototype
Base64.extendString();
// once extended, you can do the following
'dankogai'.toBase64();        // ZGFua29nYWk=
'小飼弾'.toBase64();           // 5bCP6aO85by+
'小飼弾'.toBase64(true);       // 5bCP6aO85by-
'小飼弾'.toBase64URI();        // 5bCP6aO85by-
'小飼弾'.toBase64URL();        // 5bCP6aO85by- an alias of .toBase64URI()
'ZGFua29nYWk='.fromBase64();  // dankogai
'5bCP6aO85by+'.fromBase64();  // 小飼弾
'5bCP6aO85by-'.fromBase64();  // 小飼弾
'5bCP6aO85by-'.toUint8Array();// new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105])
```

```javascript
// you have to explicitly extend String.prototype
Base64.extendString();
// once extended, you can do the following
const u8s =  new Uint8Array([100,97,110,107,111,103,97,105]);
u8s.toBase64();     // 'ZGFua29nYWk='
u8s.toBase64URI();  // 'ZGFua29nYWk'
u8s.toBase64URL();  // 'ZGFua29nYWk' an alias of .toBase64URI()
```

You can extend both via `Base64.extendBuiltin()`.

### TypeScript

TypeScript 2.0 type definition was added to the [DefinitelyTyped repository](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped).

```bash
$ npm install --save @types/js-base64
```

## `.decode()` vs `.atob` (and `.encode()` vs `btoa()`)

Suppose you have:

```
var pngBase64 = 
  "iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mNkYAAAAAYAAjCB0C8AAAAASUVORK5CYII=";
```

Which is a Base64-encoded 1x1 transparent PNG, **DO NOT USE** `Base64.decode(pngBase64)`.  Use `Base64.atob(pngBase64)` instead.  `Base64.decode()` decodes to UTF-8 string while `Base64.atob()` decodes to bytes, which is compatible to browser built-in `atob()` (Which is absent in node.js).  The same rule applies to the opposite direction.

Or even better, `Base64.toUint8Array(pngBase64)`.

## SEE ALSO

+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64
